{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12720\viewh16240\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 SimpleParticleViewer Commands\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 version 12 Oct 2013  fs\
\
In this program you select a stack file (*si.mat) and tell it a particle number, and it will display the appropriate merged micrograph and show the particle in a box.  To look up the merged image we assume that the Stack and Merged directories are subdirectories at the same level.\
\
You can press 'd' to toggle the display mode.  If vesicle subtraction hasn't already been done, there is a pause while the vesicle models are created before the vesicle-subtracted display is shown.\
\
The GUI is active  when the cursor over the figure window is a black square, and when the figure window is in front.\
When the picker is expecting keystrokes (in the middle of entering a parameter, e.g. the p command below) the cursor changes to a black circle.  If you see the arrow cursor, you should click on the figure window's title bar to make it active.\
\
The program stops responding correctly to keystrokes if you switch to another application and then back to Matlab while SimpleParticleViewer is running.  Thus it's best to quit from the program before clicking on any non-Matlab window.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Keystrokes\ulnone \
B	set box size\
c	set contrast.  contrast values are fraction of histogram to skip, default .01\
d	display mode: vesicles-subtracted or normal\
f	set filters.  Gaussian HP and LP in Angstroms.  Defaults are 1000 and 20.\
( not implemented yet)  i	Show info about an existing picked particle.  The same info is shown when a particle is picked or erased.\
o	open a stack (*st.mat) file from file selector\
\
p	enter a stack particle number. Type p, the digits, and return.\
\
q	quit\
Q	quit, but remember to go back to this micrograph on startup.\
}