{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15400\viewh19280\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 SimpleRSPicker Commands\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 15 May 2017  fs\
\
The picker is running when the cursor over the figure window is a black square, and when the figure window is in front.\
When the picker is expecting keystrokes (in the middle of entering a parameter, e.g. the ap command below) the cursor changes to a black circle.  If you see the arrow cursor, you should click on the figure window's title bar to make it active.\
\
The picker stops responding correctly to keystrokes if you switch to another application and then back to Matlab while SimpleRSPicker is running.  Thus it's best to quit from SimpleRSPicker before clicking on any non-Matlab window.  In Matlab 2014b sometimes keystrokes such as \'91x\'92 are not recorded unless you wiggle the mouse position slightly after pressing the key.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Mouse buttons\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone left click: manually select a particle (yellow box if the position is refined by the CC map, else orange).  A box with rounded corners marks a right-side-out particle; square corners marks an inside particle.  Unrefined particles are marked with orange boxes with extended corners.\
center click (=shift-click) delete a box (black)\
right click (=ctrl-click) select a non-particle (background) box (cyan)\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul Keystrokes\ulnone \
.	Manual pick, forcing no position refinement from the CC map (orange box)\
aa	do auto-picking with current parameters (picks are marked by yellow-green boxes, rounded if right-side out)\
ap	enter parameters in command window for the auto-picker, then do autopicking.\
	The parameters are\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1642\fi-176\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - min amplitude,\
- max amplitude: particle amplitude relative to vesicle signal, typically ~1\
- max variance, typically ~50.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1642\fi-1642\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ag      enter geometric parameters for autopicking, then do autopicking.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1642\fi-176\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - RSO offset, A: how far the particle center may lie 
\i inside
\i0  the membrane and still be picked.  Set to zero to accept all particles.\
- Blank radius, A:  min. distance between adjacent particle centers\
- Overlap blanking radius: Construct a disc extending this far outside the vesicle membrane.  Overlap of any two of these discs defines a region where particles are not picked.  Set to zero to do no overlap masking and allow particles in concentric vesicles to be picked.\
- Max bob, A: Maximum distance of the center of a particle outside the membrane.\
- Border, A: A particle must be at least this far from the border of the micrograph.\
- Mask blank radius, A: min. distance from a mask region for a valid particle.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 b	cycle box display (off, small boxes, large boxes, large boxes with labels (amplitude, residual spectrum)\
B	set box size\
c	set contrast.  Black and white contrast values are thresholds below and above mean, typically .5, .5\
	values closer to zero produce higher contrast.\
d	display mode: vesicles-subtracted or normal\
D	display mode: cycles through all displays including particle estimates, masks, CC and variance\
e	display the estimated model particles\
f	set filters.  Gaussian HP and LP in Angstroms.  Defaults are 1000 and 20.\
g	toggle "ghost" vesicles (blue or orange rings)\
G	set ghost vesicle intensity (typically 0.5 - 1)\
h	Draw a histogram of autopicker particle amplitudes.  Any other key (e.g. space) hides the histogram.\
i	Show info about an existing picked particle.  The same info is shown when a particle is picked or erased.\
j,J	Re-run auto picking with more stringent criteria.  j: higher amplitude.  J: lower residual spectrum\
k,K	Re-run auto picking to "keep" more particles.  k: lower min. amplitude.  K: higher residual spectrum\
l	Liposome (mark a good vesicle center; blue box)\
m	toggle mask display\
\
n	open next file\
N	open previous file\
o	open a file from file selector\
P	Set preferences, including read-only mode (doesn't change the mi file).\
q	quit\
Q	quit, but remember to go back to this micrograph on startup.\
\
r	show the picking residual (subtracts the estimated particles).\
R	start Robo-fitting.  Repeatedly loads and picks until the program is halted with ctrl-C.\
s	save the current mi file\
u	shift display up (wraps around)\
\
v	reVert to the stored file, discarding the present picks.\
x	mark a bad vesicle (red box).  All particles on this vesicle are then erased.\
\
Z	zero out all boxes\
?	list the basic commands}